### Inspiration for this App ###

There has been a continuing debate about population growth and development. Some maintain that population has a negative impact on economic development while others are convinced the effect is positive or can be mitigated with a better distribution of resources and by technological change. Recently, there has also been growing concern over countries where population growth is negative. With fewer workers to maintain the tax base and productivity necessary to support a decent standard of living and aging populations an economic crisis materializes. That is why zero population growth is widely considered an ideal that countries and the world in general should strive for. The main and enduring question regarding this relationship concerns the direction of causality. Does economic development cause population growth or does a decrease in population cause economic development? Overall, looking at the visualizations we see a pattern—decreased population growth rate correlated with higher GDP per capita and less income inequality.  This is intuitive since growth in GDP must exceed the population growth rate for GDP per capita to increase. However, you’ll find cases where an increase in the population growth rate is correlated with more equality but those are countries where population growth is increasing from less than 1% or negative percents (i.e. Ukraine, Uruguay, Moldova, Belarus, El  Salvador). Given the huge differences in GDP per capita, this visualization raises the question (among many others): what is a good GDP per capita for a decent standard of living? 

Final note: GDP per capita is not adjusted here for inflation or purchasing power parity. It's also not a good measure of the distribution of income within a country, hence the subsequent use of the gini coefficient. Unfortunately gini coefficients were missing for most countries, especially before 1985. Hence the truncation of time for gini data to 2002-2012 and the use of only 27 countries--countries for which there were less than 3 missing values for that decade.  